# Zen 1.0.0-alpha: a tiny step towards more focus

Zen puts the current window front and centre on the screen, and dims the rest so you can tune out of the distraction. You don't have to close anything, or resize anything, or position anything to do this. It plays well with wide screens. It's nice and quick, and I found it helpful in concentrating to get work done.

It's small, and it's free.

Here's the backstory if you're interested.

Some years ago, I started working on a somewhat ambitious project, aiming to put in intense but fulfilling work during the daytime, in order to create a product that satisfies users and generates sustainable cashflow.

Some of you might know this as The Indie Dream.

I had noticed I spent a lot of time during the day 'managing' my Mac as I work.

Some examples of this busy work:

* resizing and arranging my editor and terminal windows
* opening up a finder window every now and then to find some file
* constantly scanning through my browser tabs to close whatever I could
* switching between Spaces to move between windows for related projects etc.

I wanted to make an app that took a specific approach to tackle this problem, but though it worked as a proof of concept, ran into difficulty solving for all the idiosyncratic scenarios of computer usage in a serious, get-work-done context. So after a few months of working on it, I put the project on the shelf.

macOS Ventura introduced Stage Manager which I found to be an interesting approach to tackle some of these problems. But the way it works in its current incarnation is too 'all-or-nothing', requiring me to 'reach deep' to turn the feature on, then have to work in the Stage Manager way for everything.

I wanted to make something that felt more opt-in, on a window-to-window basis, and to have some features that would be simple and handy. Luckily I had something like that already prototyped on my previous project, so it didn't take me that long to put together this 1.0 release of Zen.

I'm also excited that a lot of designs I explored in my previous project could be repurposed as useful features on Zen without harming its overall direction. So I'm planning to build the feature set out as time permits.

I hope this app helps bring a little more zen in getting work done on your Mac.

If you have any features to suggest or spot issues, please [let me know]((https://zenapphq.com/support))!

- - -

<br>
<br>
